Overview
Now operating as a free agent, Sam follows the trail of his daughter’s killer to the island of
Malta. But what starts as a personal mission becomes part of something much bigger when
Third Echelon intervenes. Sam is taken back to Washington for interrogation and learns
explosive secrets about his past – and Third Echelon’s future. Forced into an impossible
situation and tormented with new knowledge about what happened to his daughter, Sam teams
up with old brother-in-arms Victor Coste to unravel the deadly web of conspiracy that his family
has become entangled in. Sam’s personal quest and a threat to Washington itself collide as he
dives deeper into the conspiracy. With time running out, Sam must face his past – or there may
not be any future.
Characters
Sam Fisher
Once, Sam Fisher was an elite secret agent, the first
Splinter Cell activated by the NSA’s Third Echelon branch.
But after the death of his daughter Sarah, and the deep
cover op where Sam was forced to shoot his friend and
superior, Irving Lambert, all that ended. Sam walked away
and went solo. Now, years later, he’s on the trail of his
daughter’s killer, a trail that leads inexorably to the island
of Malta. But Sarah’s death is only a small part of an even
greater mystery waiting there. With Third Echelon operating
under new leadership and with a new agenda, Sam must
find new allies – or decide if he can trust old ones – in his
quest. And because Third Echelon’s rules no longer apply
to him, Sam will do anything he has to in order to find…
the truth.
Anna Grímsdóttir
“Grim,” once Sam’s handler within Third Echelon and the
confidante of former agency Director Irving Lambert, now
plays a much larger role within the new Third Echelon.
Working closely with new Director Tom Reed, Grim is the
agency’s conscience, as well as its most effective and
ruthless asset.
Victor Coste
The man who knew Sam Fisher before he was a Splinter
Cell, Victor Coste served with Sam in Iraq. Born on the
rough-and-tumble streets of Pawtucket, RI, Coste is now
working the private security angle in Washington, D.C.
These days, he’s the only man in the city whom Sam can
trust to have his back.
Andriy Kobin
Smuggler, gun-runner, entrepreneur, and all-around
scumbucket, Andriy Kobin is the man to go to in Malta if
you want anything illegal. But he wasn’t always a high-flying
international procurer. Once upon a time, he did dirty work
on the Baltimore docks. But his past – and his mysterious
connection to Third Echelon – are about to catch up to him.
And so is Sam Fisher.
Director Tom Reed
The new head of Third Echelon, Tom Reed has a very clear
idea as to what the agency should be doing to protect
the United States. Relentless, efficient, and energetic,
Reed has revitalized Third Echelon and extended its reach
in ways his predecessor never would have imagined – or
been willing to do. Then again, Irving Lambert was the man
who brought Tom Reed into Third Echelon, a decision with
consequences that still echo years later.
Lucius Galliard
Businessman Lucius Galliard has a successful, diversified
portfolio. He also has powerful friends – friends who have
made him the point man in an explosive operation that
threatens to shake the foundations of Washington. With
private military company Black Arrow following his orders,
Galliard is a man to be reckoned with.
President Patricia
Caldwell
America’s first female President, Patricia Caldwell was
elected on a platform of bipartisan cooperation and
disentanglement from pointless foreign conflicts. This has
made her powerful enemies, from the corridors of power
in Washington to the shadowy boardrooms of multinational
corporations. Steadfast in her beliefs even when it would
be easier to back down, Caldwell relies on a core team of
people she can trust absolutely.